hey thank you so much for coming to my
webinar seriously and uh apparently i've
been live in the past 16 minutes
i didn't even know about it so there
were several people were joining in
early was like pam what are you doing
anyway i'm here and this is my last
webinar
and how to create a measurable marketing
plan
if you have attended my webinar last
time
i literally got beyonce to welcome us
all right
so that was the last time to welcome sly
and you probably are thinking okay who
is going to welcome us
this time who okay
guess what the greatest showman of the
life
our life all right god jack
uh well hugh jackman i always got his
name confused i always think like hugh
jackman i mean i'm sorry jack huffman
it's ridiculous
but i love this gif i mean is that cute
originally i was thinking about using
you know brooklyn nine a brooklyn
nine-nine
detective boyle do you know him i mean i
i saw this one first and i was oh this
one's good
but then i found this one i was like oh
this one's even better so
seriously welcome to my show
and a quick intro about myself pam
dinner here right
and i'm a b2b marketer that's what i do
i live in the brief b2b marketing
and what i usually do is actually help
marketers
in terms of identify the ways to support
this sales team
and i do that through content marketing
sales enablement and
also the ma tag stack and collaboration
and communication
so um anything i do is usually in terms
of sales enablement content marketing
and account based marketing i wrote
three books global content
marketing effective sales enablement in
terms of how to better support sales
as a marketer and the third book is a
little ebook i wrote in february this
year
the modern ai marketer basically looking
into artificial
intelligence how would that impact the
b2b marketing landscape
if you are interested in any of these
topics check
them out today we are going to talk
about how to create a measurable
marketing strategy or plan
i have nothing in december so december
happy holidays
and i already got the next three
webinars planned
out the number one is how a marketing
mindset can lead to a better career
opportunities
i want to talk about in terms of how you
can build a marketing mindset
right february is about how to create
successful sales enablement strategies
i'm looking into from marketers
perspective what you can do to better
support your sales team
march how to create a global content
marketing plan
if you need to scale content across the
regions
especially to different countries march
webinar
is for you feel free to register
pmduna.com for
slash webinars or go to my website
directly
click on resources and the webinar and
you can register from there
so these are the three topics for q1
if you have attended my webinar you know
that i
always talking about um marketing from
the perspective
of how you can think to solve the
problems
so i provide templates from time to time
but not always
what i want you to do is help you to
think through in terms of how to address
some of the challenges for today is
really how to
address the challenges a create
measurable
marketing plan so if you think about it
there are two ways to address this
or two ways i want to look into a
measurable
marketing plan the first one is
marketing plans
that specific uh element the other one
is measurable
how do you tackle how do you think
through uh to create a measurement
that makes sense for your marketing plan
so that's talk about marketing plan
if you have attended my june webinar i
talk about
seven key elements of a marketing plan
seven
you know what do you need to accomplish
to whom do you market
what is the product launch timeline what
can we say
what are the marketing channels and
campaign timelines
what are the key initiatives for the
years and how much money
and head count do you need to make that
happen so these are the seven key
elements i talk about as a
part of the marketing plan that you need
to incorporate
and by the way marketing plans can mean
different things to different people
and also mean different um division
but the one i'm talking about right here
specifically is for the
annual planning right if you look at the
annual planning
or quarterly planning these are the
seven key elements that you need
and if you are just looking at those
questions
you're like okay you know what pam how
what can i do
what do i need to do to actually address
those questions
well here are the templates right for
what do you want to accomplish
accomplish it's two-pager
to whom do you market is persona what is
the product launch timeline
and i actually have a template that you
can use to create a high-level timeline
for product launches and events what can
we say
that's a messaging framework i have
template for that as well
what are the marketing channels in
campaigns uh
timelines so i again templates
i have the campaign timeline templates
and also the marketing channel summary
slides that you can use
key initiative i created a table that
you can identify some of the key
initiatives that you need to do
and inform your management and of course
management headcount
how do you divide and categorize your
marketing budget
either by persona by vertical by
different organization
or even by different quarters right so
the budget breakdown
i'm not going to go through every single
one of them in detail
not today right however
you can actually check out my youtube
channels the best marketing plan for
and seven key elements of it and the
each
video is only about eight minutes long
jonah my video editor has done a great
job
and editing that in uh of the 29 minute
video into a three short video that you
can follow
so you are going to see the latest one
which is the part three tomorrow
and i just published the part one
yesterday and also part two today
so if you are interested checking out
the seven key elements
i talked about just now the seven uh the
two pager persona high level timeline
for product launches
messaging framework marketing channels
key initiative
and the budget breakdown those are seven
key elements
you can check out the videos right
the key tips the key tips that you need
to be aware of
is you need to know when you create the
annual plan you need to know what are
the three things you want to communicate
well if you are talking to me today or
you are pitching to me
today about your plan what are the three
key points you want your management to
know about you need to identify that
right then use the third party data
or some sort of swot analysis what means
the strength weakness
opportunity and threat do that analysis
and find the key nugget to prove and
substantiate your points
that you want to communicate does that
make sense and then reinforce that
discreetly
throughout the presentation so when i
was talking about the presentation here
these are the key elements that you
should have but how you structure
your flow will be different from
companies to companies to from industry
to industry
okay so you still need to think in terms
of what is your storyline
what do you want to tell and you have
those key elements that they care
then you flow it the way that you want
to flow does that make sense
so don't take the templates as it is
modify it as you see fit and
modify it based on how you want to
communicate
but the most important things what are
the three key
messages you want to get across you want
more budget
okay let's talk about that what other
things that you need to add
in those seven key elements to get more
budget
you want to change your content which is
very important you need to refresh all
your content
because we are calling 19 situation
right then use some of the data to
support that
right then you have to make sure that's
incorporated into the seven
key elements does that make sense all
right so
don't take the template as it is
use it as you see fit for your company
and based on what you want to
communicate
now let's talk about measurable okay
when i talk about measurables or
measurements
i really mean success metrics
kpis key performance indicators
right so measurements equals to
success metrics equals to
key performance indicators these are the
terms i use
interchangeably for my conversation
and a lot of time when you are talking
to your management they probably use a
slightly different terms
some people will use dashboards some
people will use
um you know indicators whatever or
management by objective
whatever you want to use just to make
sure that you are consistent
with your companies in terms of how they
major
uh marketing or um different functional
uh uh organization right
but for here is measurements success
metrics
kpi key performance indicators
so how to measure marketing success
the marketing success from my
perspective can be measured based on the
objectives and strategies that you set
can be measured based on the management
direction
can also be measured based on you or
your team's roles and responsibilities
does that make sense so i am going to
look the measurements from these three
different perspectives
one is based on the objectives and
strategies you said the other one is
you know top down your management has
set up a direction
and then you follow that and the other
one is just based on what you do
okay
i showed this several times actually
throughout a couple of my webinars and
uh
from a marketer's perspective
is very important to align your
management
like from the get-go in terms of what
you want to accomplish
and the best way to align them is your
cover
slide of your marketing plan started
with the business goals and the business
objective
this is something that your management
is incredibly familiar with
right they know what they want to
achieve they know what their objectives
are
with that being said you connect that to
the marketing objectives and marketing
strategy
try to tie that together then you
identify whom
are the type of segments or the
customers you want to market to
and the target countries that's assumed
that you are a global company
that you market to a multiple different
countries
the key marketing tactics not every
single one
now the tv has every single one but can
you summarize at a certain level
and also kpi key performance indicators
so the kpi is tied with
the marketing objectives and the
marketing strategies okay so let me show
you an example
this is an example of a two-pager
right this company wants to increase the
revenue to 500 million dollars
right the business objective is to
empower the customer to
make decision by delivering so they are
going to deliver an end-to-end
software solution of theirs right
and the marketing objective is about
start leadership build brain awareness
and the drive demand
and if you're looking at the marketing
strategy right now
the thought leadership is really about
content you need to create solid content
and then use a pay media effort to
actually share that information
right and they want to also support and
launch campaigns in five different
countries for their new product
they want to create a relevant content
for the countries
who didn't who actually are not on the
priority list
so there's the priority country they
want to go after they are some
non-priority country they are going to
provide some relevant content kit
they want to scale the content
management tools into three different
countries
they also want to make sure they
integrate the marketing automation and
cim tools
together right so for this marketing
strategy
remember i said it's based on your
strategy and objective then your kpi
at the higher level not necessarily at
the team level
at the higher level should be something
related to a number of the thought
leadership content that will be produced
the number of the leads at the local
level number of leads
sales accepted leads and the marketing
qualified leads
right and because there are launches so
the
certain percentage of positive press
coverage
and the four you know number of the
product launches
and also content management tools
implementation in three different
countries
with number of the users trained
right so this kpi or the measurements
aligns with the marketing strategies
do you see the connection right at a
much higher level
so this is another way i want to show
you another approach very quickly
this is another way to actually showcase
um the connection between strategy and
objective but applies to small
businesses
by the way let me say that again it
applies to small businesses
or team with a very limited budget right
so
if you have limited budget or you have a
small team or you are small businesses
this actually applies to you so this is
basically
again business goals business objective
marketing objective marketing strategy
kpi
right very simple is what i call one
pager not two-pager anymore
and this is what i work with my client
one of my clients
and the business goal is to achieve 15
million
revenue right and the business objective
is they want to maintain growth
in segment a while expanding in segment
b
so it's very sales driven it's
incredibly sales driven type of
uh business objective the marketing
objective is to make sure that they have
integrated brain strategy to drive a
growth of these two segments that's it
very simple nothing complicated and the
strategy right here you can see
is build the brain awareness by
encouraging opt-in encouragement
for a certain uh persona right the mql
is really about contact us form people
fielding out the contact us form from
the website
they want to do something new this time
they want to actually
they want to actually um enable
sales via targeted and strategic account
based marketing
so when i was working with susan and
she said hey pam we need to do something
different for next year
and i want to submit or
have a discussion with my management in
terms of
what we can do for next year right a lot
of time your management will ask you
what's new even though they don't give
you budget
they still are going to ask you what's
new what are we going to do
what are we going to do different in
marketing so she want to
kind of pitch and also have a discussion
with a management say hey maybe we
should do account based marketing to
align with the sales team
and you can see the strategies right
here
it's very much aligned with uh i'm sorry
kpi
the key performance indicators are very
much aligned with
strategy right the encouraging opt-in
and that's the subscribers right so it's
number of the people subscribed
um the nql is quantified as contact us
form you know filling out the contact us
form from the website
so you just number of the people who
filled out um the the form
right web-based lead generation okay
and because they want to build some sort
of assault leadership
and also they have to have a content to
actually reach out to people
so number of the content created for
outbound marketing is also critical
they need to create content on a regular
basis right
if they do account based marketing they
want to be able to track
the marketing's contribution to sales
so did you see the connection between
how you write the strategy
and how that translate into
key performance indicators and i
told her i say you know put new here to
show that this is a new initiative
that you are giving a lot of thoughts in
terms of
hey you want to do something different
for next year to make an impact
for the company and also for the sales
team right
then i take a slightly different
approach when i work with susan
because she is small business
right small business has more budget the
seven key element really doesn't apply
to her
specifically right she doesn't have to
create
such a big heavy marketing plan because
her budget is very small her budget is
only 220 000
to be honest that's not a lot right but
she has
over 200 line items
of that 220 000 what i asked her to do
is i said so what have you done this
year
oh i do a lot of um you know opt-in
i do a lot of domain jan which is uh get
leads
and i also do a lot of stuff leadership
i think great
so for this year can you categorize that
line items of budget into three buckets
three categories solid leadership brain
awareness
and dimension right so right here and
she said but it's not really one-to-one
kind of relationship i say don't worry
about it do the best you can
right so she categorized this way right
220 thousand dollars about 10 000
is really on assault leadership and uh
for the opt-in is about
uh one hundred thousand sixty three
hundred dollars and the main chain is
about another one hundred thousand
dollars i say okay great
how many content did you create well i
my goal for 2020 is to do 10
10 blog posts per month and so that's
120. i say great can we do cost per
acquisition you know
can we i'm not not yet sorry that's good
so projected to december 2020 so how
many content have you created well 11
per month about 140 great
green light yes we achieved i go
excellent
right the brain awareness in terms of
number subscribers
that she committed to 195 per month
that's 200
uh 2 340 total and
based on that and i say how are you
doing so far well not so good pam
because of kovit i'm not doing that well
right so it's average about 96
um new subscribers per month and that's
projected at 1156.
all right so let's just put that yellow
it's a yellow we did not accomplish the
goal
right the dimension is when leads this
is the lead that
she is she is responsible this is not
sales
uh leads this is not anybody else's it's
not biz dev
it's not sdr it's it's the people that
come to the website and to fill out
contact us right so she is
she committed to get that to get um
average about 123 leads per month
but so far again not so good only 90 per
month
okay so we put that red
now what i i help her to write this
i say basically what you need to tell
your management is you accomplish a lot
with less than 220 000
and also she wants to get more budget
and i say hey your marketing budget is
only 0.09
of a total revenue the industry
benchmark is about three to
seven percent right and she does
everything it's a team of three people
that has done the content creation
marketing outreach analytics
everything the whole enchilada so you
need to remind your management
hey with 220 000 we accomplish a lot
does that make sense so that is the one
slide it's a kpi slide it's a dashboard
slide
to show your management how you are
doing and don't sugarcoat it
by the way don't show the way it is
there are some stuff that you you you
did very well
great there's some stuff you just you
know
fall behind well then just show it as a
fact
the next things i hope um
susan did is we took the 2020 spends
and we took the kpi projection
and we just do a very simple cost per
acquisition
right so what we want to tell management
is
if the goals the demand generation goal
increases the budget needs to increase
as well right and we want to show we
want to prove that
to them so with ten thousand dollars
and she was able to generate 140 content
pieces
that's really about 74 con
uh cost 74 cost
per content piece okay i know this is
i simplified it i know and susan knows
that too
but we want to show in a way that
management can comprehend
right so if you want to project
to do 165 content pieces in a way
you need about 12 000 does that make
sense
so is it it's just a math you want more
it costs more right brain awareness
same thing for one hundred thousand
dollars and this
message as much as she try she can only
get about eleven hundred
uh fifty six people right that's about
ninety two dollars
per subscriber so if you want to
increase that to 2500
that's just going to be 230 000 not just
the way it is
and same thing apply to uh in terms of a
number of
uh 1080 leads
it's 96 and then that that just requires
to be 192 000
but you know a lot of time you will need
to write assumption
right and the assumption is okay
uh for this 96 dollars what
are some of the reason that this may be
higher or lower and you need to write
that down in terms of
hey cost per acquisition is low and need
to increase with the pay media effort
so we talk about this in terms of hey
what are some of the reason or
assumption
we want our management know and
you document it right here so for here
we this is the budget right here
based just on the cost per acquisition
calculation and this is just a pure math
there is no human uh judgment or
adjustments that apply to it
here is suggested we know we are not
going to get 230
000 right and just to get new
subscribers we are not going to get that
because that's not directly tied with
the sales so we judge that one down
okay but for this dimension we actually
judge up
why because in 2021
there's still no physical events that
susan can go to or help their sales team
and everybody have digital fatigue if
nothing else
we all have email fatigue we have zoom
fatigue
then the number of the demand or number
of the leads
that we're going to get as a high
quality lead is going to go up
right so with that being said we
actually judge
this one up we judge this one down we
judge this one up as well because
she wants to do some video production to
support account based marketing
and video production is not going to be
okay it's not it's going to be
substantially more
so she actually just that uh jud uh
budget that up to about 45
okay she also want to do some pay search
she wants to do some account based
marketing
and so that's just budgeting the 90 000
90 000
the total dollar amount 640 thousand
dollars
and the 2020 budget is 210 do you think
she's gonna get three extra amount
of course not she's not but she's going
to start
from that point that's her opening
positioning
does that make sense that's the open
position you start there
and then have a conversation with your
management and all this
is kind of a calculation to the point
that management can follow
right and say okay fine you want to
judge this one down
great this is probably how much we need
to spend
there's not a lot of argument to some
extent
but i i know i simplify it but this is
what
for small businesses or for small team
with a finite budget this is a good way
to showcase in terms of marketing's
impact
and then i tell her to put all this 600
640 000
into a slide right so 640
thousand dollars is going to support
your product launch when would that be
it's going to be organic social pace
search
events that we want to go to a virtual
event if i want to do any row show
and uh we are continually going to have
a monthly
email outreach and there are certain
money needs to spend on the website
updates all right so she put 640
000 also in this format
that her management can understand
then the next things that she did is
basically key initiative
all the 640 000 will not be 100 focus on
marketing
uh uh outreach well we have to
probably buy some tools we probably have
to fix some tools
we probably have to add additional codes
so the back end needs to be integrated
even more
right so some of the money will be spent
in terms of website updates or tools
needs to be
purchased if they want to do a video
production should that be in-house
or outsourced if it's in-house the
equipment that needs to be purchased
so write down some of the key initiative
that needs to be done the benefit of it
and also challenges ahead voila
that's all the slides that she needed
for her management discussion that's it
five slides okay
however talking about measurement
right today's topic is measurements
i simplify the cost per acquisition
a lot i want to put that out there right
so like if you actually sponsor an event
and you have a booth you spend thirty
thousand dollars you get
qualified leads you know you probably
get like probably 300 names but
out of the 300 names 150 you kind of
qualify them
that's about 200 per lead
but if you do a pay search right and
then uh through the pay search
only about 80 people filled out the
contacts form
that's about 200 okay if you do
email campaigns and depending on what
the email campaigns that you are doing
some of them have a call to action of
contact us some of them have a call to
action of opt-in that's just
assume that you spend 50 and 50 on each
then contact us right here is 40 because
you got
50 people actually uh through the email
marketing that you do and 40
50 people say okay you know what why
don't you have your sales people call me
that's forty dollars
and then sponsored content you actually
did some of the retargeting ad
and also some of the pay uh it's pay ads
and you spend fifteen thousand dollars
to contact us is about 75
then that cost per lead or purse per
acquisition
is about 266.
so the different marketing channels
have a different cost per acquisition
you cannot just look at this and say oh
my god
email is most efficient then i kill my
events
i kill my pay search i kill my sponsor
and i did everything on email moving
forward because it's cheapest
this is i am looking from the
perspective a
last interaction um
attribution i look at the last stage of
the people engaged to with me
and before they've been qualified or
contact us
in reality this is a customer journey
i probably show up at the event booth
right i had a conversation with you
and the conversation went very well you
did a follow-up email marketing to me
multiple times but i didn't respond
and i was busy then i saw a couple ads
and there's a retargeting ads and
sponsor content that reminded me
oh yeah this company i talked to them at
the event
and i still didn't act and i decide oh
then there's a pay search that you did
kind of follow me around and i saw that
i was like you know what
now is now i have time i want to talk to
them
so if you think through that there are
multiple different touch points
before i contact you
but right here i only take the last
stage to calculate my cost per
acquisition
so this is called multi attribution
model you need to think through
you cannot just say all right this is
the cheapest i'm going to kill
everything i'm going to put money into
email marketing
because we are calculating the cost
only based on the last stage but before
that
there are many different touch points
that happen you don't see it
or you see part of it does that make
sense
so what i'm trying to say is when you
are looking at cost proposition
is not as simple as this may not be as
simple as
what i'm showing here right you need to
think through the customer journey and
take into that account
we did this with susan that's because
the budget is very small
right and also uh the the company is
actually selling environmental software
and they are very niche only certain
type of companies that will be
interested in this uh software
so the customer journey is not
complicated
therefore we take into the attribution
model of using what i call the last
interaction attribution
so we look into the last interaction
attribution assign basically
all the dollars into the last stage
because when they see a lot of things
they engage with us that's how we're
going to calculate
but there are many ways that you can
actually do a first interaction
attribution maybe for the e-commerce
side
and then you can do a linear which is
you uh allocate the percentage
to the different uh the channels that
you market to
or you do a custom attribution etc
i am not the um multi-touch
or multi attribution model expert but
what i want to
tell you is you have to take this into
account
because measurements and the budget
allocation go
hand in hand right
so whatever you calculate in transient
measurement that also will have
impact to your budget allocation
for different channels so
am i talking too fast uh
so just uh kind of make a comment if i'm
talking too fast so can you follow
elsa does anybody have any specific
question at this time
um just people wanted to confirm that
they would be getting a copy of this
presentation
uh you know i don't usually send out the
specifically but um i will definitely
send a version of it out
or you can send me an email and i will
send it to you
because there's a lot of things i do
like this slide i mean you don't need
this slide
with a jet it's just a huge child hey
here i am dancing around using a lot of
gyms so
when i send out templates or even the
presentation
i am not necessarily uh going i will
delete some slides because i don't think
it's adding a lot of value
if you will okay so uh but reach out to
me
uh directly send me an email hello
pmdinner.com i'm one of happy to share
uh
a slide deck with you but no questions
so far right elsa
everybody's following that was the only
question
okay great so the next things i want to
talk about does that anybody understand
in terms of when i'm talking about you
do the measurement based on your
objectives and strategies is that making
myself am i making myself pretty clear
no pam one question did pop up
okay uh charlene wants to know where can
we download
templates ah interesting
um you know that's actually a great
point and uh the templates
really depends on what you are looking
for um
you know what i actually uh share
a multiple templates in my community so
charlene if you join my community i will
share a slide
at the end of the the deck and join my
community i will point to you
that the area that you can check to get
uh the templates
is that okay cool
excellent so that is the measurement i
want to talk about
that everybody should be aware of in
terms of like your
uh measurement needs to tie with
objectives and strategy the next things
i want to talk about
is the management direction okay this is
more top down
and let's go down to the next slide
remember i said earlier a lot of time
when i do webinar
is i want to help you in terms of how
you should think
and approach a specific solution
so if it's about measurements obviously
you need to think that what do you want
to measure
start from there you also need to
understand what does your management
want you to measure
these are two different topics right
so because they pay they pay you
every two weeks so you need to think
through like what can you do to
contribute to the company
right so is there's a common ground
between these two
circles if you will
management tends to care about the
following three things
they cares about revenue and profit they
care about market share they care about
growth
and this actually tends to reflect
in the business goals right they they
basically say i want to increase the
revenue you know from 15 million to 20
million
i want to increase the market segment
share from 5
to 10 or i want to see the year-to-year
growth
10 right so they tend to
care about the revenue growth or market
segment share
and the the sales growth from year to
year
what do you care you care about how much
budget you're going to get
you care about how many people you're
going to get
you care about brain awareness you care
about dementia
right that's what marketing we care
so here is what i want to show you
so let's talk about the measurements in
the marketing
b2b marketing terms
anything that has a direct impact
to the revenue tend to be high quality
leads
i'm not talking about any leads i'm
talking about
high quality leads and the leads
that they filled out the form and say
hey i want to
i want you to contact me and at the same
time it has to me the ideal customer
profile of sales team
right if i filled out a form but i'm a
small business
and but your solution is really target
for
a mid enterprise uh mid-sized company
and the enterprise company
i fill out the form but i'm not your icp
which is ideal customer profile
therefore i cannot be counted
as a high quality leads does that make
sense
so they care about high quality leads
they also care about strategic account
based marketing support
because that directly impacts sales
so these are the things they care about
but
for marketing you know what are the
things we tend to report
or measure well a number of the webinar
attendees
number event attendees the pr coverage
the ad impression
the sales support oh i support the sales
and i gave them 25 content pieces
indirect content downloads social media
metrics
website traffic email open rates right
this is why i call
indirect so how do you tie these two
together
okay but there's also exception
there's always an exception to the rules
okay so now there's a direct indirect
and
uh you know i am not saying that
marketing cannot show direct impact they
are exception to the rules and let me
show you
two exceptions that marketing
actually does a huge impact on sales
but it's like i said to exception
right and this one is very prominent
direct impact on sales through just one
ad
one commercial
and if you're a girl from compton don't
just become a tennis
player become the greatest athlete ever
[Music]
yeah that's more like it
so don't ask if your dreams are crazy
ask if they're crazy enough
[Music]
so this is the last 30 seconds
of a nike commercial that nike uh
created with uh colin kaepernick
right and uh this commercial
literally within days that nike sales
went up 31 and they launch this at labor
day weekend they see that search
right away so there is a direct impact
in terms of
ads or the commercial can have on sales
okay
but you have to understand this is just
one ad
but nike has done tons of tons of viral
ads some they kind of hit the jackpot
some didn't
does that make sense so they are still
creating a commercial a lot of people
will say oh this commercial hit you know
is like
oh uh it's creating impact for the sales
team but you have to understand that
nike has done probably 10 20
50 commercial like this but none of them
have a huge impact
does that make sense so don't just look
at one and say
oh okay they did it and the marketing
have a huge impact and we should do
commercial that's
not my point a lot of time when you are
doing stuff
day to day you still have to look into
the lease
account based marketing and all other
stuff that you are doing
day to day okay so that's one
exception i want to share with you that
one ad can actually make a direct impact
on sales another one is
also um sales related for example black
fridays
right and many many sas based platform
companies
like during the black fridays they
actually have deal even salesforce.com
right when they are trying to go after
small businesses they also have a
discount
at the black friday sales so if you are
more and more b2b companies are doing
this especially when you have a sas
based platform
that you offer a different tiers of
pricing for different segments
like for example you target for small
businesses
right and during the black friday you
offer a certain kind of discount
and make sure that people actually
subscribe for the whole year
right so the deals and discount still
works
and you can still see the direct direct
direct impact
but you should not use it all the time
that's not necessarily good for your
brand
and and also the positioning that you
are trying to conceive
or convey of your brand does that make
sense this only works on a certain
occasion
the key takeaway here is you need to
make sure you make connections
between revenue and marketing always
allocate a portion of your funding to
support
uh sales always have something
supporting sales is very critical not
just
100 on marketing right and focus on
providing high sales
high quality quality leads uh i will
address dominica i will address this in
the next slide
another another thing is when you do
content marketing
or you are reaching out to certain you
are using certain marketing channels
make sure you have
very clear call to actions contact sales
contact us
request demos as appropriate don't do
that every single time that's not my
point
but whenever when you write a copy it
makes sense to say contact sales contact
us
we'll make it so okay
now let's talk about high quality leads
to answer your question you need to work
with the sales team
very closely to define your lead
and it's not based on least scoring you
still can have lead scoring but you
should not use that to
pass the leads to the sales team the
the leads definition needs to be crisp
actionable right nobody can argue
for example for lead genius the
marketing qualified lead is they
the marketing team will pre-qualify the
person
and then this person actually raise the
hand they call
hand raisers that want to see a demo
if they pre-qualify this person that
meet
the sales team's criteria right and they
want to target for
five different verticals you know
automotive healthcare financial
institution
so they have to qualify this person make
sure this person is in these
vertical and at the same time this
person raise their hand say i want to
see a demo
then they qualify as marketing qualified
leads and the sales accepted lease is
basically
criteria is validated by sales person
right
and the prospect is basically they
completed
the calibration of the icp right and
everybody agree that hey this one
is really been qualified and can move
forward
the sales team can spend time with them
okay so a lot of time the nql is not
very clear in many many companies
and a lot of them use the least scoring
i'm not necessarily in agreement with
that
you have to make your lead definition so
clear that there's no argument
that's why i call high quality leads
does that make sense
so and when i say high quality leads
what you can control is marketing
so dominica for your question yes
conversation with your sales team is
very important
at the same time make your definition
super crisp
okay this oh sorry pam just to jump in
we have a couple more questions
that i wanted to yeah can i i actually
have a slice that i need to finish
so hold on to those questions until
later everybody just hold on to the
question because i want to finish the
slide
perfect okay this is one way and this
in general when you made it so clear
like this it actually put
um marketing in a very difficult spot
that means you have to really work very
hard
i'm not kidding right it's like oh my
god pre-qualify and requestable demo
then you will start thinking what you
need to do to make that happen
right requests for demo is so important
for nql
guess what look at the lead geniuses
website
everything they do on the front page the
home page
requests for demo on the top request
demo here
watch the video so you can request the
demo that
drive the action in terms of how you're
going to design your call to action
on everything you do does that make
sense
because now i didn't measure upon
request for demo so that will determine
how i am going to show my website that
is going to determine how my email
marketing
will be that will determine what content
i will create
it has a ramification impact
when you define your mqa is so clear
right and look at salesforce.com
okay right here you can tell the sales
conversion
or qualified leads or even leads in
general super
super important to them right right here
this is only the home page
one two three four five everything
is about conversion right
call me 1-800 number anytime contact us
right try for free start my free trial
let's chat this contact us 1-800 number
last chat they are redundant from
designs perspective
doesn't make any sense but from
conversions perspective
it makes perfect sense for me they don't
want you to miss it
they want you to see on the top they
want you to see on the bottom
they want you to try it for free right
so you can understand how their
dimension how their marketing be
measured
very critical it's about leads okay
so next things i want to talk about best
you based on your team
and your team's role this
i strongly suggest everybody take this
specific slide
you know do a screenshot i don't care
create the marketing function
your own marketing functions a goal
subjective
your own objective your own strategy
tied with the business goal business
objective
and the kpi and if you are doing website
all right this is how you i want you to
write your kpi
use your initial api is website traffic
you drive you know 10 million website
traffic great
but write it down in terms what's the
percentage of conversion to nql
what's the percentage of conversion to
sal write that down to help the
management
think that you are really making impact
it's not make them think you are making
that connection for them does that make
sense
if you try content downloads you have to
write down the content download increase
certain subscribers and subscriber
opting to attend ceo's
product launch event for example write
your kpi
make that connection for your management
all right it's about help the management
connect the dots
how does the email open rate influence
contact sales
right so your code direction from email
campaign needs to have a customized link
so you can track how do content
downloads and website traffic relate to
opt-in
and webinar attendees so you are talking
about website traffic well then think
about it
how that related to the opt-in or the
webinar attendees
can you make that correlation how does
monthly webinar attendance
increase the lead qualification if they
attend the webinar
six times can you uh correlate that
information
with the sales strategic account list in
your company cim
so when you are looking measurement you
have to look at this
level and you are like that's so much
work
i know i know
i don't know what to tell you it is work
okay final thoughts so
understand what measurements matter to
your management
make a direct indirect connection to the
measurements they care about that's very
critical
not every marketing metrics can directly
tie to a sales revenue
seriously like start leadership how can
you type that to sales revenue you can't
but you need to help your management
understand that
okay you still need to do that we need
to still put the money in there
that's the perception we need to create
it doesn't directly drive sales
understand how marketing data flows
within your company that's a key point
make that your new year resolution for
understand how marketing data flows with
your company
set up a process to track your kpi
so that's my presentation i know that
it's only got
50 uh five minutes left i apologize but
i really have a lot of content i want to
share the the measurement is my
passional uh uh very passionate topics
by the way
and i think it's very important for
salespeople uh for marketing people to
understand
how to set their metrics what is uh the
kpis
um quick things about me i do a lot of
speaking she knows workshop online
everything i do now is online and i do a
lot of mentoring and coaching as well
and i do quite a bit of consulting
majority of my clients are enterprise
clients and besides company
content marketing sales enablement
account based marketing mod tag
sales and marketing alignment those are
my forte
i build a facebook community build your
marketing skills to get ahead
i did that on march 31st in the height
of covet 19
i don't know why i cannot tell you why i
decided to do that i was kind of dumb
but anyway um i if you want to ask me
any question
you can reach out to me on any social
media channels but at the same time you
can ask me questions on my
facebook community i answer every single
question myself
so with that being said two things
before um i want to close i know people
has a question
i want to wish everybody happy holidays
can you believe it nine months into this
and we have a holiday coming yay
and i don't have any any webinar
um in december i want to take a break
and i do actually have three webinars
that's coming up in january february and
march
i will see you next year or see you at
my facebook community so
elsa what's the question share that with
me please
and you can stick around anybody if you
have to drop drop if you want to stick
around feel free
and i will answer your question go ahead
these are pretty good questions so i'll
start with
the first one um how do you track
marketing contribution to sales if you
are a large organization but you don't
have a strong crm tool
yeah it's a tough one that's a very
tough one
that's a very tough one if you don't
have a strong cim20
it's very hard if you don't have a
strong cim2 or you're in a big
enterprise that means you have to do a
lot of stuff
manually there's no other way out
so my recommendation there are two
recommendations um
i i would suggest um number one
is um you take time
[Laughter]
and kind of work with your sales team do
i kind of like build this uim
first the other one is is it possible
you have a budget you outsource and uh
hire like kind of like a data analyst on
upwork
or anybody that you know or the agency
that you work with
and uh work with that data analyst and
look at your current cim
and see if you can if that person can
help you do some analysis data analysis
together
of course you have you need to answer
specific questions with based on
specific objective
looking to ask the i am you you
basically partner
and work together with somebody who is
technical does that make sense
and then that person do a lot of
analysis on your behalf
and then you look into that data and see
if you can identify some low-hanging
fruit
as a quick one that you can do or to
to to showcase some of the the
contribution
is that helpful i hope that's helpful
that's what i would do if i have a
budget
okay okay so the next question
is uh this is from jennifer she says
what is the difference between
personas and icps great question
i love that question so good that you
ask
persona is basically
um okay i want to explain that
in probably two different ways in a very
plain english and i
tried it's not like i'm trying to
simplify it but
i want to um help you understand
okay in the very simple case right in a
very simple case
toyota toyota's copen marketing
marketing team they market to drivers
like us we buy the cars with toyota
you know brand name right so the
marketing team will market to consumers
right but the sales team they don't
toyota doesn't sell their their car
directly to me
they go through dealers right so the
corporate sales team
imagine they go with sales team they
talk to dealers they don't talk to
consumers does that make sense so let's
assume they have to increase
new dealers in some states they have to
identify
who are the uh people they have to go
after to
uh to actually qualify them or
make them a dealer so that's ideal
customer profile on the sales side
so when i talk about icp is what sales
thinks
is a good candidate that will close they
will close deal with
that's on sale side but what i'm talking
buyer's persona
is the marketing people that will market
to the product
that they will say okay i love your
product
i'm gonna tell the i'm going to the the
toyota dealership to buy your
buy your car so do you see the
difference the buyer's persona
is what marketing will do to actually
market to that specific segment
the ideal customer profile is the people
that will write a check for my company
to close the deal
they are different they are not
necessarily the same in some companies
they are the same
but in many companies they are different
is that helpful jennifer
[Music]
any other questions uh so there is one
from kelsey she says is there a place we
can visit
to understand uh percentage marketing
budget to revenue for our industry
um no uh yes and no
um a lot of time
i know that there's a lot of third party
but they are proprietary information
like a lot of time foresters or ivc
they will do a research or survey on a
certain
vertical in terms of how much the
marketing budget they spend on specific
vertical
and but a lot of that information you
have to purchase and they are not cheap
and what i will do this is what i
suggest you to do jennifer
so google right google is your best
friend google is everybody's bff at this
time
so google and type into the marketing
uh percentage budget
for your industry and you're going to
get a lot of probably
uh references and the sources i will
pick
three or four sources okay and just
read them and pick that and use that as
a benchmark to determine what the
percentage should be
when you are talking to your management
you can quote those four sources
you don't quote one you call you quote
four
so to show that you have done some work
is that helpful
okay any other questions
everyone is it helpful is this helpful
guys
i mean serious i i spend a lot of time
i'm jiff
you can do i don't spend a lot of time
on my content right
i spend like if you follow 80 and 20 80
and 20 rule i literally spend 20 percent
of the time my content eighty percent of
the time finding gif
is that pathetic or what
i'm kidding i'm kidding i actually spend
a lot of time on content so
all right so any other questions
everyone
um pam vijay had uh one last question
he asked um how to create a messaging
framework
oh my god my favorite topic favorite
topic
and um i actually write a very lengthy
blog post
and uh elsa can you send that to uh can
you add that to actually to the link
yeah absolutely i'll put the link in the
chat
okay so i wrote a very lengthy blog post
and how to create messaging framework
and i talked about messaging framework
uh for
product specific for start leadership
and then actually
for um say low um low cost high volume
uh messaging framework um i actually it
goes
you know what i'm not gonna go into
details and
i have a blog post i suggest that you
read it and on the bottom of that black
uh
blog post i actually have a template
that you can download
so you will not disappoint seriously
many many people like that template
for b2b so
any other question i think this is there
is this is
uh one last one and i think this is
actually a good question to
end on pam okay uh so charlene wants to
know
do you have where would she go to find
any additional resources where she can
read or access
uh information like this that you've
talked about
oh my god um um i think uh
my uh my youtube channel is actually
great
if you are interested and uh you can
just watch some of my youtube channels
and my youtube channel is always
i wouldn't say boring but it's very um
how should i say it it's very relevant
for b2b marketing
so i would check out my youtube channel
if you are interested
and um i don't i i don't publish on a
weekly basis
and jonah who is my video editor and i
will determine the right topic and what
we think it's good and we publish then i
create a video for it
so a youtube channel another one is a
blog post and um
the other one just like ask me questions
like on my on my facebook community i
answer every single one of them
and i make sure i answer with substance
i don't just like create fluffy answers
i don't do that
it's not pam anyway
very very good uh yeah so
uh this is like uh teresa if anybody
want a deck you have to send an email to
me i don't usually share the deck
and um even i share the deck it's a
bridge version
so i hope it's useful i'm good
all right everybody seriously happy
holiday
okay i will see you guys around next
year or at my facebook community
take care bye